1197 - Add blog post about wireguard+kairos home lab setup (#1212)
kairos-io/kairos: docs/content/en/blog/home-lab-with-kairos-and-wireguard.md

date: 2023-03-29T10:53:13+01:00
author: Dimitris Karakasilis([Personal page](https://dimitris.karakasilis.me)) ([GitHub](https://github.com/jimmykarily)) ([Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/dkarakasilis/))
---

## The problem

You got yourself a Rabserry Pi (or more), and you want to put them to good use.
You decide to make a Kubernetes cluster out of them, so that you can utilise the resources better, use familiar tools and implement infrastructure-as-code.

Up to this point, kudos to you for demanding no less than a real cloud from your home infra.

Like a smart person you are, you probably used [Kairos](https://kairos.io/) to create your cluster and it's now  up and running.
It's now time to run some workload.

Here is my list if you need some ideas:

- A self-hosted Dropbox alternative (e.g. [Seafile](https://www.seafile.com/en/home/), [NextCloud](https://nextcloud.com/) or other)
- [Pihole](https://pi-hole.net/)
- An [mqtt](https://mqtt.org/) broker for your IoT projects
- Your own [Gitea](https://gitea.io/en-us/) instance
- Your own ChatGPT alternative (e.g. using [lama-cli](https://github.com/go-skynet/llama-cli) or [serge](https://github.com/nsarrazin/serge))

> None of these workloads is intended for public access. There are ways to expose the cluster to the world (e.g. like I described [in another post](https://dimitris.karakasilis.me/2022/12/26/self-hosted-ci.html))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
None of these workloads are intended for public access. There are ways to expose the cluster to the world (e.g. like I described [in another post](https://dimitris.karakasilis.me/2022/12/26/self-hosted-ci.html))
```

So imagine you have your cluster behind your home router (NAT) and your mobile phone on another network (behind NAT too) trying to access a service on the cluster.
That's not possible, unless there is some public IP address that somehow forwards requests to the cluster.

And that's the idea this solution is based on.

### High level view

![Image describing the solution](/images/kairos-over-wireguard.svg)

The idea is almost similar to the one I described [in another post](https://dimitris.karakasilis.me/2022/12/26/self-hosted-ci.html).
The only difference is, that this time we expose the cluster only to machines inside the VPN.

Prerequisites:

- A VM with a public IP address and SSH access (as small as it gets, it's good enough)
- `kubectl` access to the cluster we want to expose (it doesn't have to be Kairos, even [`k3d`](https://k3d.io) and [`kind`](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) will do)
- A machine to test the result (a smartphone where Wireguard can be installed is fine)

### Step by step

From this point on, we will use the IP address `1.2.3.4` as the public IP address of the VM in the cloud.

> Replace it with the one matching your VM. We also assume the user with SSH access is `root`. Replace if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace it with the one matching your VM. We also assume, that the user with SSH access is `root`. Replace if necessary.
```

            template:
            metadata:
                labels:
                    app.kubernetes.io/instance: nginx-ssh-reverse-proxy
                    app.kubernetes.io/name: nginx-ssh-reverse-proxy
            spec:
                containers:
                - name: proxy
                    # Change to quay.io/jimmykarily/nginx-ssh-reverse-proxy-arm64:latest
                    # if you are running on a RasberryPi 4
                    image: quay.io/jimmykarily/nginx-ssh-reverse-proxy:latest
                    command: ["/start.sh", "/proxy-config/config.json"]
                    imagePullPolicy: Always
                    volumeMounts:
                    - name: ssh-key
                    mountPath: /ssh
                    - name: config-volume
                    mountPath: /proxy-config/
                volumes:
                - name: ssh-key
                    secret:
                    secretName: jumpbox-ssh-key
                    defaultMode: 0400
                - name: proxy-config
                - name: config-volume
                    configMap:
                    name: proxy-config

```

> In a nutshell, what the above does, is that is creates a reverse SSH tunnel from the VM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a nutshell, the config above is creating a reverse SSH tunnel from the VM
```

to the Pod. Inside the Pod, nginx redirects traffic to the traefik load balancer running
on the cluster. This has the effect that any request landing on the VM on ports 80 and 443
will eventually reach the Traefik instance inside the cluster on ports 80 and 443.
As a result, you can point any domain you want to the VM and it will reach the corresponding Ingress defined on your cluster.

> > NOTE: The SSH tunnel will only bind the IP address `192.168.6.1` on the VM, which means, anyone trying to access the VM using its public IP address, will not be able to access the cluster. Only machines that can talk to `192.168.6.1` have access, in other words, machines inside the VPN.

Author: will do :+1:

> > NOTE: The SSH tunnel will only bind the IP address `192.168.6.1` on the VM, which means, anyone trying to access the VM using its public IP address, will not be able to access the cluster. Only machines that can talk to `192.168.6.1` have access, in other words, machines inside the VPN.

Author: Hm, I tried this: https://github.com/github/docs/blob/main/contributing/content-markup-reference.md#usage-1 but it renders it literally

> > NOTE: The SSH tunnel will only bind the IP address `192.168.6.1` on the VM, which means, anyone trying to access the VM using its public IP address, will not be able to access the cluster. Only machines that can talk to `192.168.6.1` have access, in other words, machines inside the VPN.

Author: ok fixed.

                    image: quay.io/jimmykarily/nginx-ssh-reverse-proxy:latest
                    command: ["/start.sh", "/proxy-config/config.json"]
                    imagePullPolicy: Always
                    volumeMounts:
                    - name: ssh-key
                    mountPath: /ssh
                    - name: config-volume
                    mountPath: /proxy-config/
                volumes:
                - name: ssh-key
                    secret:
                    secretName: jumpbox-ssh-key
                    defaultMode: 0400
                - name: proxy-config
                - name: config-volume
                    configMap:
                    name: proxy-config

```

In a nutshell, the config above is creating a reverse SSH tunnel from the VM
to the Pod. Inside the Pod, nginx redirects traffic to the traefik load balancer running
on the cluster. This has the effect, that any request landing on the VM on ports 80 and 443
will eventually reach the Traefik instance inside the cluster on ports 80 and 443.
As a result, you can point any domain you want to the VM and it will reach the corresponding Ingress defined on your cluster.

> {% note %}

Reviewer: I think you want something like

```
{{% alert color="info" %}}
my alert
{{% /alert %}}
```
